---
layout: post
title: The 2015 DICTA Conference
author: xueyan
post_image: /images/posts/DICTA2015/DICTA2015.jpg
post_image_height: 391px
---


I attended the 2015 International Conference on Digital Image Computing: Techniques and Applications (DICTA) conference at Town Hall, Adelaide, on 23-25 November, 2015. [DICTA 2015](http://dictaconference.org/dicta2015/) is the main Australian Conference on computer vision, image processing, pattern recognition, and related areas.  I would say that DICTA 2015 is more international rather than domestic because the attendees are from all over the world.  


{% include figure.html src="/images/posts/DICTA2015/Conference_room.jpg" caption="DICTA 2015" %}



Each day at the conference started with a keynote speaker at 9 a.m.. I was very impressed by the talk given by Professor Vincent Lepetit from Austria on the first day.  He presented three pieces of work on computer vision, which include objection detection from 2D images to 3D objects with deep neural networks, outdoor location using improved SIFT features, and hand pose detection based on depth images. There were video examples (dynamic pictures) showing how their algorithm is applied and what results it achieves. All of these supportive materials made the talk very interesting and easy to follow.

After lunch on Monday I gave a poster presentation for our paper _Birdcall retrieval from environmental acoustic recordings using image processing_ (http://eprints.qut.edu.au/86716/). It went well. I tried my best to explain our work to the audience who came across my poster. During the session, I talked a lot with a researcher from Griffith University and one from the University of Sydney. They seem quite interested in the data and the project.  The lecturer from Sydney had many ideas that could lead to future collaboration. I was glad I had the opportunity to network with other researchers in my field.

{% include figure.html src="/images/posts/DICTA2015/My_poster.jpg" caption="Xueyan's Poster" %}

The second day of the conference was more about image classification and recognition, and visual surveillance. In the evening, a conference dinner happened at the top State Library of South Australia. There were prize sessions during the dinner. Surprisingly, I got a gift from the conference community because they thought my poster was very interesting.

{% include figure.html src="/images/posts/DICTA2015/Dinner_at_the_State_Library.jpg" caption="Conference dinner at the State Library of South Australia" %}

After the conference, I spent one day exploring the city of Adelaide. I really enjoyed the beautiful buildings in the University of Adelaide. I also had a lot of fun when visiting the State Library and Museum.


