---
layout: post
title: 2015 The International Conference on Digital Image Computing: Techniques and Applications (DICTA)
author: xueyan
post_image: /images/posts/DICTA2015.jpg
---


I attended the DICTA conference at Town Hall, Adelaide, on 23-25 November, 2015. DICTA 2015 (http://dictaconference.org/dicta2015/index.html) is the main Australian Conference on computer vision, image processing, pattern recognition, and related areas.  I would say that DICTA 2015 is more international rather than domestic because the attendees are from all over the world.  


{% include figure.html src="/images/posts/MMSP/mmsp-2015.jpg" caption="MMSP 2015" %}



Each day at the conference started with a keynote speaker at 9 am. I was very impressed by the talk given by Professor Vincent Lepetit from Asutria on the first day.  He presented three pieces of works on computer vision, which include objection detection from 2D images to 3D objects with deep neural networks, outdoor location using improved SIFT features, and hand pose detection based on depth images.   During the separate topic, there is a video example or a dynamic picture showing how their algorithm applies and what result achieves. All these supportive materials make the talk very interesting and easy to follow.

After lunch on Monday I gave a poster presentation for our paper Birdcall retrieval from environmental acoustic recordings using image processing (http://eprints.qut.edu.au/86716/). It went well. I tried my best to explain our work to the audience who came across my poster. During the session, I talked a lot with a researcher from the Griffith University and one from the University of Sydney. They seem quite interested in the data and the project.  The lecturer from Sydney even asked for cooperation in the future. It seems true that attending the conference can bring the establishment of cooperation.

The second day of the conference is more about image classification and recognition, and visual surveillance. In the evening, a conference dinner happened at the top 20 State Library. There were prize sessions during the dinner. Surprisingly, I got a gift from the conference community as they thought my poster is very interesting.

After the conference, I spent one day exploring the Adelaide city. I enjoyed the beautiful buildings in the University of Adelaide. I also had a lot of fun when visiting the State Library and Museum.


