---
layout: post
title: IEEE Data Science and Advanced Analytics (DSAA') 2015
author: liang
post_image: /images/posts/dsaa2015.jpg
---

_19-21 October 2015_

Data driven computing is an emerging paradigm for knowledge discovery in various areas including social media, sensor network, telecommunication, and biology. Under this paradigm, data science is the core that transmutes massive amount of data into useful information. The second [DSAA'](http://dsaa2015.lip6.fr/) conference, sponsored by the IEEE Computational Intelligence Society, was held in Paris this year, providing a forum for the exchange of the latest developments as well as a wide range of applications in data science.

One intriguing keynote speech was given by Dr. Nuria Oliver, who is the current scientific director at Telefonica R&D, Barcelona, Spain. They demonstrated three projects which utilised mobile data for human behaviour prediction. The most interesting one was to verify two controversial hypotheses about whether the diversity of population would increase or decrease crime. She collected personal mobile data from a city of Spain and analysed in two aspects: people-centric and space-centric. Both results showed that diversity of residents can serve as eyes for surveillance and prevent crimes.

Another keynote speaker, Serge Abiteboul, talked about personal information management system (PIMS). PIMS is defined as a cloud system that manages all the personal information. He advocated that a web user today should have an integrated tool to manage their personal data. To achieve this goal, he and his team are currently developing a datalog dialect -- Webdamlog.

My presentation went well and people were interested in my publication, entitled: _Assistive Classification for Improving the Efficiency of Avian Species Richness Surveys_ (http://eprints.qut.edu.au/89566/).

{% include figure.html src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1452968/11033380/45b6716e-872e-11e5-97d0-da5ac36c266b.jpg" caption="My presentation" %}


Paris is so beautiful a city that I will surely revisit in the future.

{% include figure.html src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1452968/11033377/45ac5bac-872e-11e5-9218-89978719fac3.jpg" caption="Eiffel Tower" %}

{% include figure.html src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1452968/11033378/45af30de-872e-11e5-9a5a-af1e421a10cf.jpg" caption="Arc de Triomphe" %}

{% include figure.html src="https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1452968/11033379/45b08fd8-872e-11e5-975d-004d9060fb61.jpg" caption="Notre Dame" %}


