---
layout: post
title: The 2015 ICISP Conference
author: jie
post_image: /images/posts/ICISP/ICISP.png
#post_image_height: 200px
---
The conference ICISP was held in Trois-Rivières, Québec, Canada. The aim of ICISP 2016 is to report on the latest developments in image and signal processing, multimedia and computer graphics. 

{% include figure.html src="/images/posts/ICISP/ICISP.png" caption="MMSP 2015" %}

During the three day conference, three keynote speeches were presented. 
Professor Robert Laganiere gave a talk titled "Smart surveillance systems: trends and approached". This talk mainly discussed some of the challenges related to the development for the next generation
of video surveillance systems.
Professor Jocelyn Channusot gave a talk about the hierarchical analysis of multimodal data. In this talk, the techniques for extending the hierarchical representations to multimodal images in order to 
better exploit the additional information brought by the multimodality and improve classical image techniques are investigated.
Dr. Roland Memisevic presented the use of deep learning techniques for solving image processing problems. Both the role of deep learning and main challenges are presented. 
Meanwhile, recent publications in the domain of applying deep learning for signal and image processing and some ideals and approaches to address the aforementioned challenges are discussed.

My two papers are presented in this conference, which are titled _Multiple-Instance Multiple-Label Learning for the Classification of Frog Calls with Acoustic Event Detection_ ([link](http://eprints.qut.edu.au/96252/)) 
and _Feature Extraction Based on Bandpass Filtering for Frog Call Classification_ ([link](http://eprints.qut.edu.au/93805/)).
People are very interested in my work, and asked several questions for improving my current work. After the conference, I spent one day exploring the city of Trois-Rivières. I really enjoyed the French culture in Québec.

{% include figure.html src="/images/posts/ICISP/presentation_1.png" caption="A presentation for spectral image projection analysis by Keita Hirai" %}
{% include figure.html src="/images/posts/ICISP/presentation_2.png" caption="A presentation for multi-spectral image analysis by Shu Ogawa" %}
