---
layout: post
title: The 2015 ICICS Conference
author: jie
post_image: /images/posts/ICICS/ICICS.png
post_image_height: 200px
---

As a biennial event since 1997, ICICS 2015 was held in Singapore this year. The conference consists of many interesting topics in following areas such as multimedia systems, information systems, signal processing, communications, networking and related fields.  The main goal of this event is to provide researchers around the world an opportunity to exchange ideas and latest research results in those areas.

In this conference, two keynote speeches were presented by Dr. C-C.Jay Kuo from University of South California and Dr. Kin K.Leung from Imperial Colledge respectively. The talk given by Dr. C-C.Jay Kuo is about how to leverage the characteristics of the human visual system (HVS) to achieve a higher image/video coding gain. Since the image/video coding research field has reached a certain level of maturity, one promising R&D direction is _perceptual coding_ that motivates us to use the HVS.

Dr. Kin K.Leung gave a talk named _From distributed optimization theory to in-network data processing in wireless ad-hoc and sensor networks_. First, a brief overview of distributed optimization theory was given. Then, new distributed solution techniques were presented to solve current problems for the wireless networks and numerical examples were also provided. Finally, the in-network data processing techniques in wireless sensor networks were discussed.

{% include figure.html src="/images/posts/ICICS/keynote_speech.JPG" caption="Keynote speech" %}

My presentation titled _Acoustic Features for Multi-level Classification of Australian Frogs_ went well and attracted many researchers to attend the talk. (Paper link: <http://eprints.qut.edu.au/89677/>) 

{% include figure.html src="/images/posts/ICICS/jie_presentation_1.JPG" caption="Jie's presentation" %}
{% include figure.html src="/images/posts/ICICS/jie_presentation_2.JPG" caption="Jie's presentation" %}



